#Codebook for the average.txt generated by run_analysis.r
This codebook describes the resulting data in averages.txt after executing writeMeans in run_analysis.R

##Datasource
The original dataset for input is the *Human Activity Recognition using smartphones data set*. The dataset is available at [http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones)


##Output transformation
WriteMeans does the following

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
5, From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

The resulting dataset from 5 will be written to disk as averages.txt

##Averages.txt format
The averages.txt is formatted as a table, using space as column separator. The file includes column headers. 

###Columns
Apart from the initial two columns, *subject* and *activityName*, the format of the file contains average values for each of the mean and standard deviation columns from the original dataset, calculated by subject and activity type. For full column definition, see the readmin.exe and features_info in the original data set.

Subect is the anonymous subject id from the original dataset. The source of this is the `subect_####.txt file.`
Activity is the named activity identified in the original dataset by the `y_####.txt` and `activity_labels.txt` file.

